---
title: The Eternal Lightness of Being
categories:
- Life
- Philosophy
feature_text: |
  The Eternal Lightness of Being
feature_image: "https://miro.medium.com/max/720/1*mMTQsNmT3DVF8z0XQrz9rw.webp"
---

The biggest invention of human beings isn’t controlling fire, but developing the power of reasons and explanations that “prevent” the minds of the greater population from getting lost in the mist of this universe. The torch of consciousness stands in an engulfing “darkness”, from which our mind tries to escape by lighting mere matches. Relationship, work, religion are those matches, some burns longer and brighter than others but eventually they all burn out. Lucky are those whose life burns out before their matches, but for the “unlucky” few the forever feared unknown descends and takes hold of life slowly and steadily.

# The struggle itself towards the heights is enough to fill a man’s heart. One must imagine Sisyphus happy. — Albert Camus

… But, what is this “darkness” ? And why are we so afraid of it ?

First its not a void or darkness that we are so afraid of, but quite the opposite. It’s the chaos of the universe, the dance of a thousand unseen colours which really intimidates us. We cannot accept the “meaningless” confusion of the universe, which smashes the comforting logic of a cause and effect universe in an instant. Thats why we as a herd took shelter in our created societies, religions and every thing that came with them. But like the layers of an onion as we remove each of the created conceptions one by one we finally stand in front of a force that is so immense that we confuse it with nothingness. (In this context, one can think of sound waves above 20000Hz which we human beings cannot hear. It’s our inability to hear that renders them void.)

In truth we are the most vulnerable of all the living organisms. Vulnerable because unlike any other living being we think we are heading somewhere, we are reaching some goal in or with our lives. Life is not about anything in particular and it’s certainly not about getting to a specific destination. Life is not a journey but an endless motion where the destination or even the path doesn’t matter. Trying to find peace in someone or something, be it a creative work or a mundane job is never the answer, because there is no answer to life. Life is an endless dance of senses that continues indefinitely. The happiness is just in knowing that you are part of this eternal carnival that never ends.

Thus the void that one feels in the solitude of night or in the liveliest occasions is not the meaninglessness of life but the realisation of the futility of order that we strive to maintain in life in every aspect. The universe is a far broader entity whose scope lies far beyond our limited senses and definitely beyond the fragile house of cards that we create in our mind. So rather than trying to orchestrate we should just move our feet along in this eternal ballad.

# The interpretation of our reality through patterns not our own, serves only to make us ever more unknown, ever less free, ever more solitary. — Márquez
